Hey Chembakakunju, shouldn't we celebrate today for having received a great catch Such arrogance… his pocket is full of money but still Hey! But that’s not for drinking; he is saving money to buy a boat and a net But everything in the Sea belong to the Marakkan (Sea People) What else would the Marakkan need, oh Velayudhan? But Chembankunju wouldn’t quit until he buys a boat and net. Then why don’t you all go and "help" him {All bursts into laughter} Chakki….. Get this money inside, be very careful! Are you not going back to sea No, He is too tired! Let me have a bath This is the usual attitude of the Marakkan If he gets some money, until it’s finished, he acts tired Achankunjachaya!, here she comes…. {all burst into laughter} You might be going to the toddy shop Do u wish to come too? Need money to buy rice I don’t have any with me Then why the hell did you go to sea Just to get a view… {All Laughs} If it was Chakkichechi…. She is a bold and capable lady unlike her Pha!!! who told you I am not smart! That’s my dear love ( laughs) Let's walk Here goes the evil Hope you find a dead snake in your liquor! Pha!!! Are you all dumb to play in front of the house?? Get out of here! Where is Karuthamma? Why do u ask? Sis was not given to me for being looked after! Pha!!! Go and look for her! Chechiiiiii...... (big sis) (Laughs) Please don’t make me laugh like this Kochu Muthalali (young boss) (Continues laughing) You stare! Why? Again...please don't What is this Kochu Muthalali? (Kochumuthalali laughs) My dad is going to buy a boat and net, can you help us by giving some money? I don’t have any money with me Is this the wealthy Kochumuthali? I have told you many times not to call me Kochumuthalali (young boss) Then what should I call you? Call me Pariyakutti Pariiiiiiii... Ayyo (gasp)...I won't call you that Then I won't call you Karuthamma either Then? Uhh I will call you Vallyamarakkathi (Great Sea Woman) Vellyamarakkathi? (Laughs) When you buy the boat and the net, all the fish is for me right? If you give us a good price I'll give you the best! Hard cash! Done! Deal? Deal.. Karuthamma.... (Gasps) Mother. Karuthamma.... What the hell are you thinking about?? Mommy, Chechi was sitting by the boat with Kochumuthalali and laughing! Such laughter! What the hell am I hearing?! What are your intentions?! When I was strolling by the beach he was sitting by the boat So you laugh?? I was asking for money for us to buy it What authority do you have to do that? Didn't you tell Dad that we must ask Kochumuthalali for it? So did I ask you, you brat! You are an adult Marakkathi girl (hinting at her feminine body) Why do you need to deal with these people from that community? This wide ocean is has a real effect on us If the Marakkathis (Sea Women) are prim and proper Kadalamma (Sea Goddess) will give us everything If not, She will destroy our household!! Don't tell me I didn't warn you Those of you who have to cross over to the other shore of the sea Those of you who have to go for unseen gold Those of you who have to cross over to the other shore of the sea Those of you who have to go for unseen gold What will you bring when you come back? What will you bring When you come back with your hands full? Will you give me the ruby stones Of the fisherman's daughters On the waves of the Ocean of Milk on the fourteenth night? Ohhhhhh When those of you who have to set out in your Sandalwood boats go, and come back When those of you who have to set out in your Sandalwood boats go, and come back Will you bring me the good, sweet fish In the big pond on the full moon day? Will you give me the pearls of shyness That the snake dancers in the starry sea In nomads' stories wear? Ohhhhhhhh When those of you who have to set out in your Flowery boats go, go, and come back, When those of you who have to set out in your Flowery boats go, go, and come back, Will you bring me the pigeon in the illusory island in the lake of my mind? On the midnight platform, on the fifth platter, Will you give me the divine virgins' necklaces of marriage? Those of you who have to cross over to the other shore of the sea, Those of you who have to go for unseen gold, What will you bring when you come back? What will you bring When you come back with your hands full? Will you give me the ruby stones Of the fisherman's daughters On the waves of the Ocean of Milk on the fourteenth night? We will get the rest from Kochumuthalali Shall I suggest something? We won't have enough money for the boat and the net Let's get her married off with what we have got We don't need his money! Yeah right.. Hey listen to me. I know all this I don't need anyone to make these recommendations! I'm human too Oh! Some human! Yeah keep saying that! You go after your boat and the net! Whatever happens, I won't take a dime from this amount! Don't even dream about it You'll get your daughter married off to some loafer That's what's going to happen Oh get lost I've got a guy sorted Without money? Must be some disabled guy You wait and see! You keep talking trash! Go drown him in the sea Pah!!! Who is this damn boat and net for? Let's get her betrothed to Vellamanali Velayudhan No need What's wrong with him? Oh he's a simple Marakkan (Seaman) If not for a Marakkan, whom are you getting her married off to? Kochumuthalali, I'd like to speak to you You've gotta do me a favour What would you like? I'm going to buy a boat and net Please loan me some money How much will you need? I'll need around 450 Rupees I'll return it immediately and I'll and I'll give you all the catch I've spent all the money on fish though Oh no, boss, you've gotta help me I can give you fish, if that helps Fish? Yeah that will do! I'll sell it for cash If then, come at night Karuthamma Yes? What were you doing there? That's why I called Girls this age must not loiter around sweetheart You'll have needless feelings Oh let it happen then Oh don't betray us sweetheart If Marakkathis (Sea Women) get these feelings, our community will be ruined! I was just kidding This community survives because us Marakkathis are prim and proper Ya know? Why are you saying all this now Mami? Oh sweetie, you have a young mind Just wanted you to be careful Hey I'll show you a little trick Every time you get such feelings, just call out to Kadalamma (Sea Goddess) And beg her to not destroy us And then restrict yourself I used to be like that Is the count correct? All good, boss! Chakki! Chakki, Why don't you grab everything and put it inside.. Is Karuthamma sleeping? She has already slept Kochumuthalali I'm leaving now I am worried Maybe its because you're about to die! Sadness it seems! Ohhhhhhh….Ohhhhhhhh Ohhhhhhh….Ohhhhhhhh Come to me, dear myna, give me sweetness In your beloved garden who are you searching for, who? Come to me, dear myna, give me sweetness In your beloved garden who are you searching for, who? Come to me, dear myna, give me sweetness The Nishagandhi flower has bloomed in the land of the moonlight The Nishagandhi flower has bloomed in the land of the moonlight Have you already forgotten your old playmate? Come to me, dear myna, give me sweetness In your beloved garden who are you searching for, who? Come to me, dear myna... The waves of the ocean and the desires of the heart The waves of the ocean and the desires of the heart Will never abate, my dear, will never... Come to me, dear myna, give me sweetness In your beloved garden who are you searching for, who? Come to me, dear myna... Where is all this from? Kochumuthalali gave this Why can't he keep that with himself? Mind your own business! You forgot what I said?! Come to me, my myna... Karuthamma? Karuthamma Yeah? Did you know? To buy the boat and the net, I lent cash I gave it cause you had asked Isn't all the fish for me? We made a deal. Why are you crying? Is it because I came here? I'm a Marakkathi (Sea Woman) So? Oh no! Mom will come now! So what? I'm standing outside You must not stand like that It's wrong If that's the case, I shall leave Karuthamma, you love me, right? Until death! It's high season for fish and you are young, boss So what happened to me? Not that, just spend your money wisely Ok I am leaving Ok When your dad comes, tell him that brother Joseph was looking for him Will do! Boss! I am going to Pallikunnen's house I heard they have a boat to sell If the deal is fair, I will close it Nice! I will pay off my debt to you using the proceeds from it Okay, then I will come back later Ok Panchami.... Yeah? Hey, my wife Oh Nalla-Pennu! Is there anything to eat? I am a bit hungry If you are hungry, swallow me! Why are you talking like that? Say something that's sensible I'm famished! Wasn't Chembankunju with you all the time for all the deeds? So? He is going to buy a boat and fishing net! And we don't even have anything to cook Then you go live with him You! So if Chembankunju made money by starving himself, I'm to suffer the consequences? Hey! It is because of you and your Marakkathi's mischief! Don't talk shit about Marakkathis! What mischief are you talking about? What's your problem? Jealousy, jealousy Haha, towards your Marakkan? That scumbag? Don't you talk shit! Better take her with you What the hell will you do? Piss off! You better not make Nalla-Pennu (Good girl), bad Hey Nalla-Pennu, from today onward, I'm going to earn well! Meh, stop bluffing Now, why are you saying that? We should buy a boat and a fishing net to curb their untoward ribald If only you had thought of this before! It's not that I didn't think about it I would have earned something, if we had kids But then you don't want a child even if you are to lose your head Now, it's all because Oh then I'll do it! (Man humming) What's there in the house of Achankunju, we heard an orchestra there Oh lord, what to say?! Chembankunju has just gone to buy a boat And his wife has already started showing off (Laughs) Who gave him permission to buy a boat, he can only keep it on the shore Not only that; isn't there a system in place here in this shore Isn't it unusual, here in this shore, to not marry off a grown woman? (hinting at her feminine body) He thinks anything goes here, let's go meet the Father Let's see what's his opinion is Hey, I have a question! Are you mad at Chembankunju because he boat a new boat and net? Or is it because he hasn't married his daughter off? Assume we are having a tiff for both! Ah...there it is. Jealousy! (Laughs) So you are still on Chembakunju's side People who love each other will fight sometimes We are childhood friends If that's the case then we should chase away the two of them Wait and watch! where are you from? I heard that you are selling boat Yes, we are! Please sit down No thanks! I will stand here No need for formalities, please take seat Where are you coming from? I'm coming from Neerkundathu You might be tired after walking then Hey Pappikunju! Pappikunju! Yeah? Bring something to drink for him He came by to buy our boat Would buttermilk do? Whatever you have Don't you want to see the boat? I saw the boat on the shore Then tell me the rate for it Tell me the rate from your side Please keep the drink on the table Why? Take it and drink If there is any trouble on the shore how can we not inform you, Father? So we came Is it necessary to buy boat when the girl is now of marriageable age? So we asked you Father, you need find a solution for this! I will teach him Let him buy the boat and reach here Let them all know that, not a single soul is to step on his boat! I don't want to sound like I'm haggling but don't we need a mutual understanding? Please don't say anything and take this! This is all I've got The amount that I had first mentioned, is there I guess we can agree on this then I wish you good fortune, Chembankunju! Dad, I want to go and watch a movie today Is that all? Then go and watch Is this your son? Yes I have only one child Lunch is ready, please come Let's go then Dear did the person who went to buy boat come back? Oh who cares! How can he think of buying boat when the girl is of marriageable age? Hey dummie! How can they make money then? They need to profit from her... Pha!!! Isn't that your job, you filthy woman?! Don't you come to my turf and talk crap! What are you going to do, crazy Paru? Don't act too smart. You and your Marakkan will learn a lesson! The men have gone to the Father of the community! And what is he going to do?! We know what to do with you lot! Ugh, leave it. Haha. Kids. Do you see our boat? Did you? Ayyo you look worn out! Come have lunch! Ah did you make something? Yeah I think it's expensive material That too, one solid piece This was the boat at Pallikkunnu What to say? The whole beach is against us Ask them to get lost. If we have enough money, the Father will be on our side! Don't touch our boat Hey get away kid! What are you doing messing around with the boat? Scram! Where are you even from?! Did you decide on who is getting on the boat? Ah it is Achankunju. Everything will work as you say now I'll take care of your share too (Laughs) So are you just staying here? Didn't you know that Chembankunju had called? For real? Guys, why didn't you tell me this? Did you call me? Who? You didn't? Whom all are going on the boat? Whomever I like to have there! Oh ho. So it's like that now What is it Chembankunju? Is there not a Lord of the House now? It was out of my foolishness I'll fall on your feet Please forgive me You shouldn't repeat this error Won't You can go now That's not enough, Father When I get the boat going, you should come Oh, no need for that You can go ahead I don't have anybody, oh Father What if they stir up trouble? In this beach? I'd need to see them try! Oh Chembankunju, go off bravely I'm there for you The fish (catch) on the boat is all for me, right? You won't talk? Shall I go? Someone will see Karuthamma, do you love me? Yes Just me? Yes Lemme go Karuthamma No. Lemme go What did we do to these people? Do we need to do anything? Jealousy! Why did you have to bring this to yourself anyway? If only we had married her off with the money we had Would we have to go through all this? Oh shut up We have a boat now. All we need are different types of nets now We'll get that How? Mm Now look at us getting the bad eye If only we had made the gold for her There is a way What is it? That? We need to get that guy Be quiet! Karuthamma says he's below her league If she finds out, we will clash! Then what else do we have? Pareekutty must give us 500 rupees! You must ask! I can't deal with this Then the boat will just sit at the shore Let it go then! Will you even give all this money back? I'm on it! I'll give it back with interest! Now, go try it out Ugh, you give me a hard time! Do I need to go right now? Oh please do, my Chakki Go Did you get it? You did? You're a smart one! Poor kid There is an auspicious time day after We will get it out then! When will you give this money back? Trust me on this my lady! Do you have any shame, oh Marakkaan (Seaman) For you to go uninvited Oh you get lost! Our squabble is over He will definitely want me there Release the boat! It's time, oh Chembankunju! Stay blessed! Can you push please? What do you think, Achankunju? The weight is to the West, eh? The turn is South Is that a good thing, Achankunju? It should be fine I reckon All the fish is for me, right? Is that a matter of discussion? I'll give you the finest price That's up to you Once this great catch is over, we will give you the money What if I don't want it? Oh don't say that, my child, we will pay you for sure Thinking that I can get on his boat, I didn't even bother getting on another Ah then suffer! You were talking so much about you and Chembankunju being one! Yeah my chance will come! Oh Nallapennu. I will buy it What? Boat and net Go tell that to real men, oh Marakkaan! I will buy it, woman Then who am I? Valakkaaran (Net guy) Achankunju And you? Thengakola (Coconut bunch) [BS] Coming up front is Chembankunju's boat, right? Oh that arrival is dramatic Oh don't keep saying stuff The catch is sardines! The crows are feasting on it Oh there's a queue Hurry up, Velayudhan! Mommy, it is sardines! I will take one from it and will sell it dry! Scram! (Unintelligible curses) Scram! You dog! You cruel man (inaudible) Mom and daughter at it already! Don't touch this! Ah it's a good catch! Would you like to sell to me? Do you have the dough for it? Need money for it Need money, I've got it Tell me the price He didn't give the fish to Kochumuthalali Didn't you discuss the price? Didn't have hard cash I could've given the best price Oh Mother! I can't tolerate this Don't cry We will pay him his money back You pulverised my child! You have too much arrogance! Why didn't you give fish to Kochumuthalali? He didn't have cash! Didn't you take all his money?! You mind your own business! God won't forgive you! I don't need his forgiveness! Why don't you pay him his money from this bunch? Let it wait You fool, don't we need to enjoy like that couple in Pallikkunnu? In this old age? So what about that? His wife is as old as you But when you see her walk all dressed up, you'll be mesmerised! I don't want to hear about these girls I'll fix you up properly and get you all healthy! And we need to enjoy! What is it? (Laughs) (Indistinct chatter of fishermen) Chembankunju, could you give me the fish? Do you have the dough? If not, go! Either you need to give him his money! Or fish! Why is it that you can't do either of them?? I don't feel like it! Who the hell are you to ask me!? You're the one who made me borrow money from him Well then, go give him his money yourself! Dad, we must give him that money. Yeah yeah go give it Pha!!!! Matters between men will be sorted out by men! Why should you get all angry about it? Why is your place so dilapidated son? It'll all get right once I get enough fish, Father There's lot of fish in the harbor. Why are you not doing any business? Dad, that's because, my business is not rooting well Ohh. Then tell me, how much money do you have with you right now? Dad, you don't need to worry about it. I'll try to make my business right (Drunken singing Folk Song) Oh, Nallappennu Hey, don't you have any shame man! Saving up for a boat and net it seems! Huh! Coming up all drunk and out of senses! Hey girl, you wait till the next Chakara (great catch) I'll have a boat in the sea! Stop blabbering! You'll get a life only when you stop drinking. This damned drinking! Haven't I told you not to say that?? Huh?? (Beats her!) Why are you not crying girl? (Scoffs at him in disgrace) You are the Nallapennu (Good girl) I can't lie down hungry here any longer. Take some money and go buy some rice! Aha, don't you wan't anything else? I won't take a penny from it, even if I were to die Then, go buy some rice from somewhere! Well, that's a man's job at home I'll kick you for good, yeah! Get up first. And then kick me! Girl, go buy the rice! The Sea Goddess seems unhappy Now, when will we get a good catch? We are all about to die of hunger! Do you have the mind to work? If yes, no one will stay hungry. I'm gonna take the boat to the sea. Would we get anything though? If we don't, then we go where we do I'm going into the outer sea. I just can't afford to not work! We gave it despite our lack of it I know sister, but we are in desperate condition Hey sister, you can keep this with you Ah 'Nallapennu', you've come too? I'm done. We are completely out of money here Don't say that to me, sister Alright, I can give, because it's you. How much do you want? I just want 2 Rupees Don't take the utensil mom. Give her the 2 Rupees No need, it's alright. Let it stay here as a collateral Mom, why did you accept that vessel? Of course I will, we need to be sure. It is two rupees! Then, without any guarantee someone is giving a thousand rupees as well Mom There you go again. I'm not saying anything now Y'all coming here like I'm printing money Sister, it is because we don't have money for food Ah now everybody needs Chakki's money! Since when did you get rich? Get off my property! I should sanitise myself if I enter it! Pthoo!!! Pthoo! Pthoo! Ah just who I was looking for! I need 150 rupees master I have a boat. i will return it with the rate of interest you ask for Come home tomorrow Hey Nallapennu! Get that matchstick Hey Nallapennu! Matchstick it seems! It's been days since I even lit the stove! You should think of this when you drink away all your money Don't worry, we will get a great catch again It's so cold! (Laughs) Are you crazy? What are you laughing for? So you didn't know. I'm going to buy another boat and net! Got an opportunity! Oh then let me show you something as well There! Ah a cot? Yes I got it from a woodworker for 4.75 Rupees Is it worth it? So you've decided to enjoy life! It's good We need a mattress like the one at the Pallikkunnu house! All you talk about is that Pallikkunnu house! I think all you think about are those ladies! Who wouldn't fall in love with them? I will get you fixed up and "healthy" like them Come sit here, lemme see! No need to see now! Oh come on! We need to enjoy! O' those with the brand new nets! O' the dwellers of the shore At the Purakkat shore we now have a great catch! A shoal! A shoal! A shoal! As the South West Monsoon ends, the skies are now clear As the South West Monsoon ends, the skies are now clear We waited and craved this great catch! A shoal! A shoal! A shoal! O' Oarsman who seeks the mystical fish O' Oarsman who casts the golden net over the sky The fish that slumber in the endless waves over the horizon still won't do The fish that prance to the sweet rhythm won't do either O' give us the milkfish that hail from the ocean of milk Give us the flower tailed shrimp! O' give it to us! A great catch! On the shore hereafter it is a festival! Hey great catch! On the waves hereafter it is a competition! A great catch! On the shore hereafter it is a festival! Hey great catch! On the shore hereafter it is a festival! Thamara, Panchami, weave the nets! Sew the sweet golden nets, sweetheart! Onam (Malayali Harvest festival) has come O' Onam has arrived! Our Onam! Our Onam! Our Onam! Isn’t today the day for fountain fireworks for our sea! Isn’t today the eve of Onam! O' folk song singing nightingale Have you seen the dance from across the seven seas O' Sea Goddess let the boats sway on your waves Let the boats rock to this rhythm (Atthilum Itthilum) A great catch! Our nets are filling up with mackerel! Hey great catch! Pockets are ringing dear brothers! A great catch! Our nets are filling up with mackerel! Hey great catch! Pockets are ringing dear brothers! Venture forth and return, all you who stand at the shore’s doorstep! Venture forth and return, I have no more fish to give you! Eliya! Eliya. Eliya. Eliya. Eliya (rowing rhythm) You truly are the son of the sea! Well-done boy! Where are you from? From Far South Enough! You are not good enough to trade on the beaches! You need to wind up your business and come home! No Dad, I'm not coming home If you want, give me my share of the property So now you want your share eh? Your sister needs to be married off There is hardly 40 cent of land left How much share do you want from this? Then you can leave father, I'm not coming Chakki, Have you noticed that boy? He looks very smart Who is he? He is suitable for our Karuthamma We will invite him for lunch tomorrow We can't let him go Yeah (coughs) What's your name, son? Palani Aha! Why are you laying down here? Would you like to come to my house? No Alright Go and give it to them, my child Go! Have it! Eat well, my child, eat! So, you don't have a house? Why do I need one? Where will you sleep then? I sleep on the beach What kind of a life is that, my child? What do you do with the money you earn? I eat it up! Oh that's not right! It is time for you to get settled Live in a home! I have found a suitable bride for you! Have you seen my daughter? Yes Would she do? Yes Then ask someone from your side to come and see her! But I don't have anyone! Would that be the right thing? Oh it's enough! The guy just needs to like her Do you like her? Yes Will we ever get such a good guy! The Sea Goddess has blessed us! Why are you like this? Is the boy for you? Oh is he for you? The two of us will conquer the seas! You'll see! Chembankunju has bought the second boat! Here is someone just sitting at home! Get up and go! Am I sitting here bothering you? Isn't it? Ouch! This monster!!! How dare you! Hey! A true fisherman does not own nets and boats! Chembankunju is fake! Ahh! Keep saying that! Now he's going to marry off his daughter! Now that too! Whom do we have to marry off here? Do you want to get married again? You and your banter! We won't get a nice guy like this again! Did you like him? Mother, why are you asking me all this? You just need to send me along with somebody to live on this beach So, you have no interest in this alliance? Whatever it is, I want it only after our debts to Kochumuthalali are paid off Here she goes torturing me again! Then what about me, mom? Because of me, there is a man wandering penniless on the beach! When I see that, I go crazy You have no business now, right? I will give you your money But for that, you haven't borrowed money from me But, I'm the one to state it Why is it that way? I'm the one who ruined you! After giving you the money... After giving me the money, you'll get married and leave the shore, right? O' Karutthamma, will it be possible for you to leave me here? (sobs) Oh woman, with eyes like pearl spot fish Oh woman, with eyes like pearl spot fish Oh, girl like a blooming lotus Oh, girl like a blooming lotus Oh woman, with eyes like pearl spot fish Aren't you the pearl that the Sea gave us The pearl that is found in the cold The girl for the fisherman with a nice boat! Oh the Red Eagle flying in the sky! Oh the Red Eagle flying in the sky! What's on the menu today? Sardines or prawns? What's on the menu today? Sardines or prawns? The festival at Arthungal church has begun The festival at Arthungal church has begun Please give me a good catch oh Sea Goddess Please give me a good catch oh Sea Goddess Once a fisherman went out to sea for pearl He sank in the westerly wind The fisher woman sat in penance The Sea Goddess brought him back When your husband goes out on the boat You need to be his guard on the banks I swear by you , swear by me Or else your husband wont see the banks Oh woman, with eyes like pearl spot fish What you saw in the sky is not pearl What you saw in the sky is not pearl What grew from the ground is not pearl What grew from the ground is not pearl On the first wave of the first sea On the first wave of the first sea Oh dear pearl, come to me Oh dear pearl, come to me Once a fisherman went out to sea for pearl He sank in the westerly wind The fisher woman went astray The Sea Goddess took him away When your husband goes out on the boat You need to be his guard on the banks Oh woman with eyes like pearl spot fish How is it now? Did you see how things are going the way Chembankunju wants it to? Tomorrow after Karuthamma's marriage then Then you tell me what next Then that Muslim boy... Shush, that scoundrel Then you tell me what next Then we are going to enjoy our lives I am going to give the boats to the boy How is that possible? Won't he go to his house with the girl? For what? What is there for him? He will stay here If he stays, well and good If he doesnt stay, we ll make him stay Who else would give their daughter in marriage to an orphaned man? Well, we don't have sons Yes exactly. If he stays with me, then I'm the king of this beach! Mother, won't you let me go from here even after my marriage? whats wrong my child? I don't want to stay here, mother. I need to go. So you don't want your parents since you got a man now? It's not that. I can't live on this beach. I don't know who else to share this grief with Are you ok my child? Is there any danger ? No mother, but I'm scared. My heart is running wild. My dear child, if that is so, you should go from here If i stay here, this beach will be doomed! The waves of the sea and the desires of the heart The waves of the sea and the desires of the heart Won't settle down my beloved, won't settle down Come to me dear Myna, come to me Give me pinches of sweetness In your garden, who are you searching for, who? Come to me dear Myna, come to me Karuthamma Guess you've come to bid goodbye, right? Until now, we were together But from now on, I will be all alone Don't kill me like this, Kochumuthalaali Even if you leave, I won't leave this beach O' my Kochumuthalai, why did we ever meet? Because God wished for it. In your memory, I will sing every single day And I will hear it from my new place, and wail in your memory And like that, I'll sing and die from heartbreak And before that happens, my life will drift towards you And then, on a well lit night, our bodies will embrace each other and sing all around this beach O' my Kochumuthalaali Is it just men who are here to be part of the function? What kind of a feat is that? Just men to take the girl? Shall we enter? Yes, please do Who are here from the groom's side? Set 75 Rupees for the girl Is there no one here? O' Patriarch! Yes, you are in charge of the traditions But shouldn't you have asked us to bring money Are you guys that impoverished? O' Patriarch! We too are from a place with rich seafaring tradition! Is there anything wrong with what I said? This is a top quality woman. Why can't you set the 75 Rupees like I said? Oh don't tell us about her quality! What's her flaw? I've been to this shore before! You're just marrying her off to save this community! O' my child! Chakki! It's fine, just sprinkle water on her! There's 75 Rupees Give it to the Patriarch Let the function go on! I will not be part of this deal! Come here everybody! Here is the fee Let the function start! Everybody sit down Shall I get the girl? Yes, get her Everyone stand here Over there So do you want to take the girl today itself? What kind of a question is that? Her mom is ill and Chembankunju had suggested that they could go along later Has there ever been such a tradition?! Don't tell me about traditions! If that is the case, it shouldn't just be a group of men taking the girl away either Is that our fault? Why did you marry the girl off to such a group then?! Stop it! We shouldn't be talking, let him say what he wants! What do you say? Tell him that you're staying I need to go My dear son, take a look at the mother and then decide I need to go now! Now ask where the girl is Where is she? Ask them if you really need to go now How can I go, seeing you in this condition? So now you don't want to go, eh? You... No need, I'll go I need to go now What do you have to say? Do you want to go? I must My child! Tell them you don't want to Who else is there to help your mother? But still, I must go You want to go?! Your not my daughter! You miserable soul! I curse you! Hey Chembankunju! Sister! I’ll take my leave now (sobs) There might be stones in the rice There was no sieve to strain it. I went to Vadakkathil (market) to sieve the rice Oh really? I also bought the Wok from there Hmm We need to buy some utensils Hmm Enough! That’s plenty Oh! You don’t have to finish it I could have made one more dish if I had a wok Is the dish not good? It's delicious! I’ve never had anything like it! You will have to eat more now Or else... I’ll feed you Feed me? Yeah right! Now I’ll serve you some rice No don’t Oh that’s enough Women shouldn’t eat a lot of rice Says who? Let the tummy grow a little For what? A baby needs its space [says playfully] Oh dear! I have never thought of building a home until our marriage was fixed We will have to build a big house now Hmm I don’t need a pillow. I cannot sleep with one on I’ll help you fall asleep Karuthamma…Karuthamma Karuthamma Hey, Karuthamma I think the woman has engulfed him Hey Palani (shouts) Hey Palani (shouts) Hey wake up (murmurs) They are calling you from the beach Eh! Hey! DIrectly going to the fishing boat? Yes, why? You can't go to fishing directly like this Huh! why You need to be clean and tidy Oh! I should take a bath right? Ok, then come Uh! it's already late (shivers) (laughs) Yeah! That's enough Ayyo don't do it Hey Palani (shouts) Hey palani, did you bathe? Oh yes What all did the new bride tell you? You shouldn't misbehave with her, alright? It's not good Look at this shy guy having taken a bath so early Stop teasing me brother Let's get going (chanting) Hey you Come here Please come here What's your name dear girl? Meenakshi My mom calls me "Meenu" Then why were you standing there? I wanted to see you, sister I also have a younger sister like you Oh! then where is she? She's back at my parents place What rubbish are you saying? The new bride's parents have fishing boats Then why would they marry off their daughter to palani? By the way! Does she have eyes, noes, ears and all? (normal) Only Palani would know! (everyone laughs) The girl is hot! Then she's a slut for sure! Will she ruin our community? Will decide when I see her (everyone laughs) I'll tie your hair for you everyday, okay? Okay Oh hey! Mom! Oh you got here? Hey Sis! This is my mom We came to see the new girl Oh I don't know anyone here We are your neighbours Oh come inside No worries, we'll just stand here None of us thought that Palani will get married like this You're blessed to have him His life is now your responsibility Mom check this out, she tied it for me Wow it's nice! Do you have a birth mark on your tummy Birth mark? Yeah We are so exhausted. Could you fetch us some water? Do you have utensils? He said he'll get it Such a shame for manhood! Taking a shower and all! It is the women of our homes who buy utensils You don't worry about that, this is for my woman How about that This is what happens when a man who has never been with women get married! Shouldn't have gotten this type, it's too wide at the top Oh no! This isn't good at all! It's bumpy You should've checked before buying Oh please, like I'm some utensil expert My mom had purchased a couple of large vessels for the wedding It looked like bronze! Mm I left her in that condition You were ready to leave? Yes Let's go see mom Let your dad come here first! He won't Then you won't either Your father is greedy! There's no one who would come seeking me You have me I have the Sea Drink this, Sis! What bothers you? Oh nothing I just wanted to see my Karuthamma She'll definitely come, you're her mom! He won't send her. He's stubborn I'm going to the healer's house. Is there anything you'd like to convey? I don't want healers or medicines! Go bring my daughter Which daughter?! Haven't I told you that I disowned her?! Daughter it seems! (wails) Hey Karuthamma Hey Karuthamma Just heated up the water now Check this out Is this what you trawl from the sea? Put it on! Let me see you in these clothes I'll wear them later Come on. Just wear it . Do as I say Put it on! Later Come on I am covered in sweat and dirt Do you know what this is for? It's what we will wear for the festival in Mannarshala Just go and put them on I'd like to go home in these Not right now People ask me why I don't go for the feast Even people ask me why none from your side visits us Well, did anyone visit from yours? Don't you know I got none? I don't have anyone I don't need anything I was deceived and was given the girl who was ostracised isn't that what happened? (expresses sorrow) This isn't what I say. That's what people say No (sobbing) I am not an outcast You are my God Waves of the sea, the desire of my heart Waves of the sea, the desire of my heart Hey Panchami What's up mom? Please ask Kochumuthalali to come For what mom? Please call him, my dear Mom asked you to come home Why, Panchami? No clue He won't return the money. Kochumuthalali He was cheating you That's alright He cheated our daughter as well He basically pushed her into the sea My child, please hurt Karuthamma, she has a husband now Promise me. You won't, right? No. NO! I am unable to go to the beach. People laugh at me Telling me that you're a slut No. I have not gone astray Then what are they saying about that Muslim boy? I don't know. Both of us grew up on the same beach Nothing else is there, yes? I know the duties of a fisherwoman I will believe you. It's a sea with cyclones and whirlpools With strong and uncontrollable undercurrents I know. I know that the life of my husband is in my hands Please believe me Chakki Give food for your father, my child I don't want now, dear Chakki, I fell from my boat Chakki My leg got weak Chakki Don't go on the boat from now Sit at home for a while Please take care of her Mother Chakki CHAKKI If I go, what will you do with me? Dont tell like that Chakki, what will I do with you? (inaudible mumbling) CHAKKI! CHAKKI! CHAKKI! CHAKKI CHAKKI Someone should go get her No need No matter what, that was her mother She must not enter our household! When her mother was well, she left She left not wanting anything to do with them Let her go Where is Palani's home? There! Near that shack What's up Lady Chakki passed away Oh dear When? This morning You came here to inform them? Yes It's me, Pareekutty Is Palani not here? Oh God You won't leave me in peace Open the door, Karuthamma No, I won't He has gone to the Sea, with the cyclones and whirlpools! Never! Karuthamma, I came to let you know something Lady Chakki passed away I shouldn't have come here Oh my mother! (wails) Hey Palani, go home quickly! Kochumuthalali had visited your home this morning I saw him on the beach Your mother in law died So hey, if a Marakkathi dies, Muslims come and inform us? I asked him that too What did I say on the day of the wedding? Now look Hey Karuthamma Hey Karuthamma! Who came here? In the name of God, believe me Since nobody would come from home, he came to inform me Am I not a human being? Don't I need to live here? Oh God (sobs) No worries Shall we go to my place? Do you want to go? We should both go No need! You go alone! And don't come back here! (wails) Oh Mother Hey get me some tea Quickly! It's time to set sail I want a strong tea! Strong coffee for me! Give it quickly! What's there to eat? You're going to have a good time! Why? Kochumuthalali is setting up shop here Does he have the dough for it? Why does he need that? Palani and his wife will sort that out for him He's her childhood friend (everyone laughs) Why would you talk trash? Come here! He's lucky that I didn't have a knife on me! We'll mark him for later! Did you get into a brawl today? I heard about it! You won't tell me? I'm hungry! Get the rice ready Shall I tell you something? Shall I go for work at Kizhakkaatu? Only if you like Can you carry all that load? Why not? You don't have anything? Oh. That I don't have that kind of burden yet Do what your mind tells you Brother, get up and eat We had rice here, Nallappennu You won't eat our rice? Where is Panchami? She is sitting there in the house and having lunch Okay then you keep the plate over there When are you going to get up? I am not hungry, darling. That’s why Oye! Come here Ugh. By what name should I call this guy to make him come I am telling you to come here Come here Why are you shouting your lungs out? What happened over there? I thought you were running after the goat Force your buddy to eat his lunch! I am fed up! Is that it? Then hold this So I have a question Did I get married for my sake or for your sake? My wife does not have time to make lunch for you If you want, get married again I told her not to bring food for me You nim-com-poop! I was putting some wisdom into your head Speaking of which, why can’t you get married again? Why should I get married again, Achankunju? So what? Everyone does that Now, your wife has left Even an old lady would want to get married Do you think I will get a woman like Chakki again, Achankunju? I will tell you something that can be done Not for you But for Panchami, someone should be there to look after her Why do you need a woman at this old age? First you eat Then you can think Why did you come for this job? I'm a fisherwoman too Girl, this is a gruelling job Where is your house? Neerkunnathu You haven’t been into this business before, right? No Thought as much There was a lady who used to come here to sell. You come from tomorrow, okay? Okay Sis, can I also come with you? Will you also teach me how to sell? Once you are old enough, we will go together to sell You girl, didn’t I tell you not to go with her? What were you thinking selling fish at a cheaper rate? We won't accept this Maami, that’s because I do not know I am going through all this difficulties to earn something for myself Wherever you go, there is a line of men waiting for you Lady, this ain't good Mother, don’t talk about her like that You get lost from here Why? Are you planning to be like her? Spoiling the name of the shore? Don’t you ever talk to her again! I know what's going on. I'm worried about losing my boat We are afraid of losing our lives So, what should I do about it? If Palani is around, we aren't going But how will I say this to him? We will handle that Do as you please Have you got no fish? Didn't you go for work? I'm selling it underpriced cause I don't know the trade, ain't it? Who has the loss? They're telling me I'm out to seduce men! Don't worry about that Don't go for work anymore, okay? Palani is coming! Hurry! Push fast! Hey! Stop! Stop! Did you tell them not to take me? Am I not good for it? They say your wife is not good! Who? Everybody! Everybody! Get rid of her Palani! Ey! Didn't you go? What's wrong? Didn't you go on the boat? They say I'm no good unless I get rid of you Karuthamma Everybody is talking about that Muslim guy You still don't believe me? I do But why is everyone talking about this? To kill me Don't be sad Just because they didn't take me on the boat, doesn't mean I give up Without going on the boat, how are we going to survive? This Sea is mine too! Nobody can beat Palani at this! As long as the Sea exists, Palani and his wife won't starve! Dear Lord! It's so hot! There's no breeze either Ah, it's your house! Your life! Start living! Don't you cry, my child! Did her husband die? I'll kill Chembankunju! Nothing good comes out of her mouth! Shut up! The house is small Chakki was content with this I wanted to build my own house Couldn't make it We must build a good house This is my daughter, Panchami Come here, my child Go sweetie She's your step mom No, I'm not up for it Hey don't say that She's young, let her get used to it Hey Karuthamma I'm going fishing in the sea Oh! Alone? Then what? I can beat all big whirlpools Even with strong undercurrent, Palani makes it I grew up in this Sea! But then, what will you do for a boat? What sits on the shore are all boats I'll push it at night and set sail Oh no! What if someone sees? Yeah like I'll make them see it I can only manage this right now till I make some money And then I'll rent one We need to live Hey did you know? What? Your dad got remarried What? I heard it on the beach What's wrong? My Panchami will only have sorrow in her life Why did you come here sweetie? I'm not going there anymore Maami, let them live Isn't she a kind person? Kind! You should look at her strut! I feel like stabbing that guy! Now now don't start talking like this Why did he bring her in? Let it go Don't cry now Please don't chase fish in the far seas I have put a price on a small boat today It's very old, but that's okay Then you shouldn't have got it Why keep giving boat fee to keep it? Yeah need to buy But I need 75 rupees more Can't you get 75 rupees with this? I don't want that That's from your dad. But still, it's all ours To go out, you need at least a small neckalce To go to the sea, you need a small boat at least If only that Kadhal landlord had given me the money he owes But he ran away Either way, the boat can't stay like this on the land It will just break again But we can't take it out to the sea without mending it When Chakki was around, I'd never run out of money Anyway, I bring bad luck Wherever I go, I bring bad luck Ey no, it's not because of thou Thou? I always get that wrong I don't know why Like my Chakki... You can't see me like her, can you? For thou... no, how is it like for Pappikunju? Does he see me like his dad? What kind of a question is this? Be honest, do you think this wedding shouldn't have happened? Did I say or do anything to make you think like that? I was just asking Leave that We need to take the boats out to the sea Let's ask Joseph, he will give money But when we take the boats to sea, won't we start getting money? So give his money then Hmm yeah we'll do something like that Or both boats will go Look at your paunch! In all its glory! What are you staring at, fatass? What did we do to you dear? No, don't, don't call me dear I don't like this Come eat rice What if I don't Why did we come here mother? It was for you, my son It was for you It was better to stay in our own home If we had a choice, would we have come here? I won't stay here longer If you can, get me some money What is going on? What should I do with this boy? What is going on I said! That girl is not letting him stay here She's been like this since we got here Hey Panchami! Hey Panchami! Come here! I will-I will--- Father! Don't slap me! Mother! She ran again It's the neighbours that ruin her What is this woman Telling the girl lies and spoiling her Who are you to ask? You are the one who taught her all these bad habits Be careful what you say to me I play dirty! Shut your mouth Fisherwomen haven't spoken up in front of me yet! I'm from a good family in Ponnanithura, did you know that? The caste might be high, but you eat stolen stuff! Keep that trash to yourself Did you marry me and bring me here so some low class fisherwomen can abuse me? What should I do? Did you hear Palani bought a boat like he said? Yo, those are real men! My Velu, if I have a wife like his, I'd buy a ship itself! (laughing) Don't speak ill That Muslim boy still keeps coming, brother Achu! Probably he may have given the money for the boat. Yeah, otherwise from where will he even get the money? I've been thinking why we're having the low tide These baits are not so great Why so? I'm not content with this job I'm not getting good enough fish i have fished in the high seas growing up Ah, I want to buy a big boat now! If it is a big boat, can you take it out on your own? If we have equipment, then all of these gossip mongers will come begging! Ah, how are you feeling Karuthamma? Are you tired? If yes, make sure you ask someone for help. Ok? Alright. Kochumuthalali, what happened? Are you not planning to do business anymore? Yeah... will Karuthamma not come anymore? Dad will not bring her back If you tell him, your dad will bring her back. Will you ask him to? Ok, I will ask him. Oh... mother... You go inside, I need to go for a bit Where are you going? Just go to her Girl Wow - are they all good? Shouldn't you have read it, Chembankunju? Why are you so quiet? Read. Let's hear it Here, look Both of you are the same So I can say it Keeping your boats and home as assets, I'll give you 750 Rupees If you don't pay it back in a year, all of the cited items are mine That's the law Can you make the installment period two years instead? Oh dear, that's too long Where do I sign? Here! Here! 750 Rupees! That's the money to fix the boat How can I give that to you? If that's important for you, live comfortably No, my child. I've done all this for you I'll do this one last thing Your mother has never stolen Here is 200 Is that enough? That's enough, my child, don't make me sad I shall take your leave When will I see you again? I will come Son! My child Did you take money from the case and give it to your son? I did Huh?! Get out of here! Where will I go?! Get out! Never come back! Why can't you speak sense into him, Achankunju? To whom? Chembankunju? Yeah Yeah right I'm hiding from him Why? I married him off! Now it's a problem We shouldn't waste time here talking We should go speak to the Patriarch Good idea Let's see what he has to say That's good What will you do? But still, we are women How can we tolerate this? This will spell trouble Someone will take her Nothing good comes out of her mouth! Are you going to just sit here? Let the Sun set, Nallappennu, I'll leave Come to my house (sings lullabies) Hey Karuthamma Don't you hear the child cry? Is this how you hold a child? Yeah like that was my job in the past Don't spoil her too much, she's a girl I'll take care of her Oh Daddy's love Let's go home Let everyone see her I can see Panchami too Along with her you want to see your Muslim guy, right? Don't say such things! You feed the child! It's time for me to set sail Chakki! Chakki! Chakki! Panchami! Come here, my child! Come here Come here My child! Acha, let's bring sister here She's kind Whom do you want to bring? They're still in the shore! You want to be like her?! Bring her into this house?! Get lost! What is it, Panchami? Dad yelled at me I can't stay in that house anymore I'm going to my sister's house Tell her I asked about her You go, Panchami (laughing hysterically) How much do I owe you? Don't you hear me?! I don't want it That's not feasible Here, take it If it's too much or too little, this is all Stay blessed! Let me be ruined! Sister! Sister! Panchami! My sweet Panchami! It's been so long! Did you come alone? Yes Where is your daughter? Do you know me? What is her name? We haven't named her yet I'll do that You look thin Did you have anything to eat? No Then come Nice timing to have a child Has anyone seen her? I did What does she look like? Why? Looks identical to that Muslim guy The eyes, the nose! (laughs) I'll kill you all! Don't you know where dad is now? At the beach somewhere He's now wandering around like a madman Does Kochumuthalali still sing around in the beach? Yes, sometimes What's wrong? Nothing sweetie I saw Kochumuthalali recently Did he ask about me? Yes What did he ask about? He asked when you'll go there Do you love him? Yes Does he come, when I'm not around?! Is this child his?! My child! Come to me, dear myna, give me sweetness Oh Karuthamma Oh Karuthamma Yes? Who am I to you? You are my everything! My pot of gold! (To the fish) Oh, So you are trying to take me to the castle of the Sea Mother? I will not let you go Karuthamma! Karuthamma! (Calling out loud) Sister! Sister! Fin Do you want subtitles for any video? -=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-