Good Morning, Ashok Verma here At the guesthouse? Oh ok, sure. No I wont be late. Leaving immediately Night patrolling was successful A car came till Boat Jetty, saw the Police and went back During the chase, our jeep broke down. - Then? They cannot escape as we are still vigilant in city limits Home minister is at the guesthouse His PA had called Since he is foolish, its very difficult to explain the case status to him Nothing gets into his head He keeps ordering me to catch the criminals, catch the criminals in the same tone as he used to chant slogans in his early days I'll try to come back soon, You should be available here The coming 2-3 days will be very important I know it Sir This is all I can do, you also need to understand my difficulties When you reach my posi.... All of you please wait outside Sit, Mr. Verma Not that I don't know the difficulty of the case If you could arrest atleast one person, I could show something in the Assembly A responsible Customs officer and an investigating Police officer are killed They are not some ordinary citizens Sir, without a full-proof plan, there is no point in arresting someone By the time your plan is ready, my government will fall Mr. Verma,"we have suspicion on 5-6 individuals, 1 or 2 have been arrested"-- --such news should come in papers, else no meaning in investigation Sir, how can I arrest someone without evidence Instead of arresting one individual, I am targeting to capture the whole gang It will be done in 2-3 days That's not enough, tomorrow there is another meeting Something should happen in the next 24 hours Sir.. You may leave now D.I.G had called From an anonymous discussion heard over the phone, we understood the smugglers are getting impatient They were able to hear some threats against you Then? Phone number was traced. It was from public booth near the 2nd gate D.I.G has asked you to be vigilant No worries I'm now convinced that my investigation is moving in the right direciton This is why they are getting restless The gold that were smuggled through our ports, have not left the city The people who are guarding that gold are also the murderers We are unaware how powerful they are Maybe we will face an encounter, maybe tomorrow itself "In the shadow of power, ignoring the hardworking citizens" "Bringing the state into turmoil, we demand the resignation of the HM" "We request the citizens believing in democracy, to join us in this movement-- -- to demand the resignation of the HM" What time had I asked you to report? How long should the Home Minister wait for you, Mr. Mohandas? Sir, I vomitted blood in the morning - Why? What disease caused you to vomit blood? I was told it is a very dreadful disease Isn't there a name for this disease? Name?.. Sir, nobody gave an accurate name This could discover a new disease in Medical Science. Maybe Scanning is completed, reports are pending When we want to assign this major case, how can you bring your scanning results? Please, excuse me sir, disease is not a crime Police officers shying away from their duties of catching criminals-- -- with naive excuses, is a very serious crime I have brought all the required medical certificates Experts say that I need atleast 6 months of rest Instead of these, you could have just brought your Death certificate The smugglers have killed Ashok Verma It seems Verma had information about the locations where the gold is hidden They stole his briefcase as well These smugglers seem to be very clever No doubt, they are still hiding in various disguises in this city In which disguise Sir? This is an embarassment for our department Ashok Verma's murder is a slap on our face Mohandas's withdrawal from duty is another shame Sir, I have to get my X-Rays at 11.30 - Leave then Sir, my files? I.G., you need to make a decision Mr. Surendran, I expect you to boldly take over this case Sir, in any other situation I would have happily taken over What do you mean? Sir, I have been married for 7 years After a long wait, I will be a father next month Hence, I am planning to take leave next month What relation does it have with this case? I am certain about one thing Your behavior is far more cunning than the smugglers Your are supporting the opposition party to oust us from power I assure you one thing, whether we solve these cases or not-- -- we will complete our term of 5 years I had warned you earlier, I didn't want the home ministry Does this saree look good? Does this color suit me? Please tell me Can you please go away? I am too stressed Listen, don't show your Assembly behavior to me You have changed a lot after becoming the HM My father provided you funds during elections, not your party You will not give me a peace of mind We may have to forfeit power if we are unable to solve this case Forfeit power? You mean in 6 months, instead of HM's wife I could be known as Ex-HM's wife? Don't you dare say such things People are already jealous of our current status I should be slapped for bringing you along to such places Be careful with your words You being the HM does not frighten me "In the shadow of power, ignoring the hardworking citizens" "Bringing the state into turmoil, we demand the resignation of the HM" "We request the citizens believing in democracy, to join us in this movement-- -- to demand the resignation of the HM" The opposition is provoking the people "HM should resign, HM should resign" Will there be law and order if the HM resigns? If you can't find the culprits, what can I do? After Verma's murder, entire police department is in fear Suicide is better than accepting this case, is their opinion I agree to that I have come to discuss another idea Abandon the case? Any idea is fine, but be quick Everybody is demanding CBI to investigate this case But before that, lets try one last option Can't you speak without the exaggeration? Sorry sir, but some exaggeration is needed to explain this It is something new that does not fall under our Department ranks Yes, tell me You may have read some news articles published 6 months ago? No, after becoming the CM, I have stopped reading the news Sir, please listen carefully A notorious smuggling group, well known in India and abroad-- -- were caught 6 months ago in Madras Notorious criminals Anandan Nambiar and Perreira are in jail today. - So? Internationally acclaimed assassin Pavanai was easily murdered Drugs worth crores were captured Do you know who achieved these wonders? - No Two young Malayalees Today they are an asset to the Tamil Nadu Crime branch My strong opinion is to involve them into this investigation In such a particular scenario, Tamil Nadu government should accept our request No matter what the difficulties and obstacles from Tamil Nadu government-- I've decided to bring those two brilliant CIDs here for the investigation Sir, please come Sir, this way What? Way to the entrance is here CIDs are well aware which way to take I.G asked me to inform you that there is no danger here He might not be aware that every situation is the same for us What he actually meant is that, don't get scared by the news regarding-- -- the murder of multiple officers who were investigating this case Scared? We? So he is unaware of our previous achievements Haven't the papers here published the news-- .. about how the Underworld in Tamil Nadu have surrendered to us? Yes, they have Even then, he is advising us not to be afraid? Whom to fear? There cannot be a more vicious criminal than Anandan Nambiar in this city Even if there is, they would themselves flee, once they know we are here Smugglers and murderers won't show up anymore You may not know how efficient and dangerous we are, but they know Even we know, Sir Then stop such baseless discussion, Inspector Don't move, everybody put your hands up Sir, we..? You may be Police officers, but we will not allow you to interfere here Sir, he is your cook This is your house for stay.. So the murder was not here? - No. Then take us to that house first Open Its a two-storey building, correct? - Yes Sir Is there a back door? - Yes Sir How old is this house? We don't know that exactly. - Why? Find it out Age of the house and the murder..? What is the relation you mean, correct? It has an importance At what time did the murder happen? Doctors say it may have happened around 11 PM The location of the body has been marked inside Sir, the body was in the room inside Sir, that's the marking of the body This is the head, correct? No Sir, that's the legs This is the hand? No, this is the head Marking is not correct Its correct sir. - Who said? Are you going to decide that? - Sir... Constable, take out the diary Constable, also take out the tape Measure the distance between the body and the door How much is it? - Around 3.5 feet Note it We have found a button fallen from the shirt of the murderer So? - Isn't that an evidence? Whether that is an evidence or not, we will decide on that Button? How many buttons of the same design are manufactured regularly? How will you find the killer with this one button? Constable, measure the distance between the head and the legs Before that, one moment please What? Undermining me has always been in your blood I don't like you referencing me as Constable At TN Branch, you are a Constable, I am an Inspector That's there. Why reference it here? No issue in saying the truth, your complex won't end until death I am B.Com first class pass, you are a pre-degree fail, we can never be equal In CIDs, there is no B.Com or pre-degree, all are CIDs If you repeat, I will become barbaric You don't need to, you are already barbaric At the door we found some blood, which could be the killer's That's another evidence. We have sent it to forensic labs for tests Send it, but we don't need it To find evidence and to solve the case, we don't need State Police's help We have been sent here because of your incapability Sir, whatever is possible.. No, we will give some orders, you just follow that First, Mr. ...? What's the name of the victim? Ashok Verma What was Ashok Verma's weight at the time of death? Around 70-72 ... Approximate is not enough, I need the exact weight And build a dummy of the same weight We will drop it from the top floor to the bottom Sir, Verma died by stab wounds. Then, why dummy? You don't need to know that However the death, we will drop the dummy That's our new procedure Dummy, one is not enough, let there be two. - Why? One the victim, other the killer Oh, that should be fine, Constab.. Sorry, CID Mr. Vijayan We need photos of the victim - Photos of the killer will also be good Aren't we here to find the killer? Correct, but if we have the photo it would be easier Ok, for now, we can leave We have come here after solving several complex cases in Madras However smart the killer is, we will catch him If the killer is present in this gathering it is better to surrender yourself Don't expect you can escape from us My experience is less Do you want some? Based on the case history, do you want such a publicized investigation? It's necessary, the criminals should know that we have come to investigate this Knowing this, most of them will surrender themselves I don't think so We can see Inform the concerned parties, the criminals will be caught soon We can discuss the rest later From my side.... We are not expecting any brilliance from your side If we need a car or jeep, we will let you know. - You can leave We thought this is where the murder took place As soon as we arrived, we thought you were sent to attack us CIDs always need to suspect somebody Even my wife has not beaten me so cruelly Whenever I face my enemy, my each punch weighs 1 quintal If I had joined, it would be 2 quintals Now its 3 quintals - What? My hand That's ok. This is not the first time I have been beaten But, most of the people who have beaten me, have given me money for medicines I will also give you money. Because of you I got some practice Yes, First, please bring some tea Sir, do you have any humanity? - Not much Not at all. Can I use this hand for 3 days at least? Should CID's starve then? - Its ok, let the poor thing rest We'll have dinner today.. .. from outside - Yes Your hogging well Today somehow I am very hungry - That's not something new Please inform our new cook to prepare such delicious food daily We are not here to hog food and sleep Eat when you have the chance, else regret when you are diagnosed with diabetes If you eat like this, you may need to regret earlier Where is the fried rice? Will bring it soon - Make it quick There's no point waiting, today we need to make a decision Meaning? - Maybe, I will shoot But, that could kill - There may be no other choice Old memories are making me laugh How many insects used to survive on our blood in Madras. - Yes It used to be feast for mosquitoes and bed-bugs Vijay, every coin has two sides. - Is it? Ofcourse. With happiness, there's sadness, with success, there is failure If there are tears, a smile is not far away Look at the respect these police officers have for us This CID job is pretty comfortable - Yes, but we need to solve cases That can be done. Weren't our investigative findings correct today? Other than your stupidities, all were correct from my side Oh, do you mean you have already found some evidence regarding the killer? Did you get any evidence? - If you have found something, so have I Isn't this that same person? - Which person? Come lets follow him Leave it, lets not follow in the night The is no morning or night for CIDs - I do, I want to sleep Who is he? - You sleep, no need to know, I am going to follow him Hey look, 50 paise coin Who is bursting crackers now, isn't Vishu festival is over? Crackers, it might be for Diwali Or was it a gunshot? Did you take the gun? Why would someone carry the gun for dinner? Look, someone just shot at us, the bullet passed from here. - Run Come What happened? Sir, this is an encounter between the criminals and CIDs Which CID? - We are the CIDs This is a very notorious area, it is dangerous to be here Please get into the car If my car had not come, they may have killed you We did not expect an attack so soon Anyhow, I have a satisfaction that I was able to perform a good deed You were lucky that my meeting related to opening an orphanage ended late So Sir, are you a contractor? - Oh no, I am just an innocent citizen A social worker who wants to do something good for the society. - Oh, I see You are here to investigate the DYSP murder case, correct? Not just that case.. - We want to eliminate all the smugglers in this city To be honest, I feel pity for you All officers who tried to apprehend the smugglers in this city, have ended up getting killed mercilessly Did you know about this before accepting the case? One Customs officer, two DYSP officers and many others have been killed Since you are still young, I felt a bit concerned for you Wouldn't it be better to abandon the case? Sir, we are not cowards. - Not at all, Sir Actually I was just cautioning you Also, if you would ever like to meet me, keep this card Ok then, I'll take your leave Kunjikrishnan, you think its child's play? Did I ask you to perform stunts on the road? 4-5 loads of copra came in, so thought of focusing on that So sent Kannan and Ismail to ambush them Copra? Aren't you aware that I have built this mill as a decoy It is just a camouflage for our Gold and Drugs smuggling business My apologies, Boss Hours of stunts will not help us to get rid of our enemies When I understood it is getting out of hand, I went there with my car If any one had got caught, I would be in deep trouble Such mistakes will not be repeated. Deve Gowda had called again from Mangalore But it is not that easy to transport marijuana from Idukki If you at least killed those CIDs, I would have got some motivation Boss, you remain patient, I will wear a mask God's will must be that they die by my hands, just like Ashok Verma Tell Deve Gowda, marijuana will be on time You should not leave here - I won't Don't forget, our boxes of gold are in the shed I won't get sleep until they reach Gujarat I am going to visit the Guruvayoor temple I will pray to God to get rid of these obstacles for us Didn't you sleep? - How can I sleep? I am worried that our end is near Didn't you say CID is a comfortable job? Who knew there is so much danger awaiting us? The Circle Inspector was right, CIDs should not publicise their investigation I was just thinking about that Remember on the road I said lets follow a fat guy We need to find him soon At the restaurant, I heard him say that he will kill us. Shucks, he got away Let him go. We will go back to Madras If we keep running away like this, how far can we go? If not this case, then another one, but we have to investigate Unfortunately this is our job I am thinking of leaving this job itself Vijay, don't you dare say that Aren't you fed up of starvation and poverty? After living like beggars for years, we found a job and you want to give it up now I just learnt the fact that CIDs should be in disguise during investigation The fat guy is definitely their leader, we need to find all his secrets Lets where a disguise In 10th grade, I got a first prize for fancy dress competition Then nothing to worry about Lets change our religion. - For what? With a beard and cap, lets disguise as Muslims who repair umbrellas Try saying, "Any umbrellas to repair?" - "Any umbrellas to repair?" "Any umbrellas to repair?" - "Any umbrellas to repair?" Yes, there's an umbrella to repair "Any umbrellas to repair?" - Yes, there's an umbrella to repair Should we go? - Of course, we have to If the fat guy is not here, it would be a waste of time Lets try to find some info of the fat guy from that lady What if we need to repair an umbrella? - We have to Will you repair it? - All this is your idea, you try and repair one If its some stitching work, that should be fine Bring the umbrella that needs repairing - Don't ask for any atrocious charges Charges are not an issue, get the umbrella - Don't argue later Its a small job, few stitches, canopy has to be changed, one rib is broken, Grip needs to be tightened, so the job is very small. Tell me the charges Give the umbrella, I'll tell you the charges Have you seen a big fat guy with a beard around here? - For what? We just wanted to see one I have seen many such guys. - Name one? First tell me the charges. - First you name one First the charges How much will you give? The work is only for 50 paise, I will give you 75 paise Agreed, give the umbrella Moideen, please get this fixed - Its ok, you fix it I'll assist you, you get it fixed. - Not needed, you fix it I am a constable, you are the officer, you fix it No need to consider that, you fix it. - Fix it Oh, the handle came off. - Fix that as well Hold it correctly - Ok, pull Whats happening? We are two Muslim brothers who repair umbrellas Hence, we are repairing the umbrella currently Mom, who are they? - Why? One guy's beard is coming off. - Beard is coming off? Yes, it seems they are burglars. They must be in disguise to identify houses to rob-- --then they will come in the night - Oh, my God Hey everyone, please come soon, there are thieves in our house Please come soon - Huh, thieves entered the house? Come lets check Oh God, they are getting into our house. Come soon Hey, we are not thieves. - Catch them, quick Oh Inspector, yes investigation is going well Today, we were successful in our disguise mission Yes, we do suspect some people Its not time to confirm that What nuisance is this? When its time, we will give you a call That Circle Inspector is a big pain Its his curiosity They have expectation that we will do some wonders here Vijay, suggest me another disguise. We need to locate that fat guy very soon How about as labour grinding spices? Lets not choose some work we don't know for disguise The only work you know is to cheat others and to hog food. - Is it? Yes. - Then do it yourself TN government is not paying to sit idle You feel that you are the leader and I am your understudy Have you ever considered any one of my ideas? For that, have you ever given any ideas? Then shall I give you an idea? - Yes Lets disguise ourselves as Parrot astrologers We can enter anywhere and say any lies Being a Parrot astrologer, wouldn't we need to make the parrot pick a card? That's easy. The parrot's wings will be cut, we need to bring it out of the cage Then knock on the cage twice 'Tik, Tik', the parrot will pick the card Where did you learn this skill? Das, as you think I am not a worthless CID I can give you another 100 ideas like this Let's first see if this will succeed. - No doubt, success is guaranteed Useless CID job. Either we need that fat guy's name or his address Without all this, how do you expect us to find him? Also, this damn thing is very heavy Didn't you say if we become Parrot astrologers-- criminals will come directly to us to get arrested Anyhow it is better than your umbrella repairing idea That day we escaped because of the blessings of my ancestors CID job can be risky at times, if you don't like it then leave the department Who said I don't like it? If I had investigated alone, this case would have been solved long back Ya right. Henceforth, you investigate this case your way, I will do it my way That's fine with me. But before that I have a question. Where was the first place you saw that fat guy? At the restaurant. - Sure? Yes. - Instead of doing all these antics, did you not think of checking at that restaurant once again? Yes, I missed it So I thought of that idea now We need to immediately go to that restaurant. Call for a Taxi Hey, you have proven your stupidity once again Have you ever seen any Parrot astrologer travelling in a Taxi? No. - Come lets catch a bus Hey, stop there Hey, what happened? - Where are you guys from? We are from Tenkashi You guys were here to pick-pocket, right? - No way Yes, the other day you guys came to repair umbrellas at my place Then they were wearing a beard and cap. These moustaches are fake Hey, don't touch the mustache. Let go Catch hold of them Where? Sir, I am not able to understand You won't. You can never understand the difficulties of a CID After getting beaten at the bus stop, even this guy hit us Look at this Sir, they are? - They have come from TN to investigate a case Didn't we tell you a 1000 times? You need to beat them up for interfering in the freedom of a CID Well, when you came home you were in a Muslim attire, at the bus stand-- --a Parrot astrologer, anybody could doubt you, Sir That's okay, you can leave. But you have no right to harm someone That's what we are here for. Leave Sir, what are you upto? Muslim attire? Parrot astrologer? So what? If we solve the case, we know the State Police won't like it TN is not short of cases, we came because you begged If you have issues, then let us go back I have no issues About the murderer's blood test, we didn't get any update from you But then you said it's not needed No matter what we say, you need to fulfill your duties We need that result immediately You are not even capable of arranging a dummy Sir, we can go in my Jeep. - What? Jeep? - We don't need any help from... ...the State Police When we went to fix umbrellas, we almost got beat up In Parrot astrology, that was fulfilled Do let me know if you have any more ideas like this During that struggle, we lost the cage and parrot else it was a good alternative for you. It was a perfect match for you What are you looking at? She's a woman. Else I would have slapped her Hey, how could she know we are CIDs? If you had told the truth, these problems could have been avoided I have seen disguised CIDs only in movies Using such many disguises, we have been able to solve many complex cases Please don't be mad for spoiling your umbrella Is that important? All my bones are broken That's Ok. Didn't your bus come yet? I missed the bus. Anyways, I won't reach on time today, so going back home Oh, where are you working? It ain't a big job, I am a Sales girl at a textile shop What's your name? Shobha. - I'm Ramdas Das, our job is to investigate cases Where is this textile shop? - In the sky When going for a case investigation, main officers are accompanied by a Constable to look after everything I'm B.Com first class. This poor fellow could not go to college.. .. so he became a Constable He used to sell vegetables in a cart in Madras Yes, correct. I remember disguising like that for a case investigation You are never going to change He seems to be short-tempered Oh no, he just has an inferiority complex that I am an Officer and he is a Constable See you later I hoped that your dignity will improve after becoming a CID If you mention about the vegetable cart to anyone again, I'll poke you in the face Its been so long you have been speaking about your B.Com first class my skin is burning. - Let it burn Its jealousy. Can you ever dream of a B.Com first class? You are a foolish CID trying to include yourself in my successes Get lost you fake CID Hi baby, shall we go home? Come Shobha, the CID you were talking about is here Hi, this is a pleasant surprise. Come, sit inside Don't cry, baby The day we came to fix the umbrella, we didn't see the baby He was at the day care then I have seen many Police Officers, Collectors, Ministers before But for the first time I am seeing a CID for real Did the public assault you a lot that day? Where is the other CID? I still feel bad about what happened No, that's Ok. We damaged your umbrella that day so I got another one for you. - That's not necessary Let it be. - Oh, that was very old umbrella Ok then. - Please have a cup of coffee No, its Ok. Why, any issue having something from here? Nothing such. - Then just a minute, I'll be back This must have cost a lot That old umbrella was bought by Rajendran 3 years ago Who is Rajendran? Leave it. CID, What is your salary? My name is Das, Ramdas, please refer to me like that CID sounds more powerful Where is your hometown, Ramdas CID? Its towards the North Are you married? - No I'll give you an advice, don't marry a girl if the horoscopes don't match What's your Zodiac sign? Zodiac sign, Cancer It was my son Rajendran's Zodiac sign as well His horoscope wasn't the issue His son was born in an inauspicious time. We knew its unlucky Within 6 months of the child's birth, my son passed away Well, its all in the past now Shobha is your son's wife, right? Here. Mom, what happened? I'll see you later You didn't have the coffee? - Duty first I made an attempt yesterday night Only if we move carefully we can succeed Since we have come so far.. yes we will not surrender Who's there? - I'm just a passer-by But, this is not the sidewalk. - That's why I am going back So yesterday night also he tried to kill us Yes, he said "Only if we move carefully we can succeed" That means he does fear us a bit He said he will not surrender Vijay, its time we get prepared as well. - Absolutely necessary Its great that we located him. - Now its easier Its time for us to proceed No Sir, I did not blink once in the night I think this bird is highly vigilant I moved without making a single noise, still the bird stopped singing Are you sure it's a bullfinch? - It comes under the bullfinch species Its claimed that there are only 198 bird species in Kerala I will prove that wrong For many bird researchers, it will be a slap on their face Absolutely I have sacrificed my home and family, for researching on birds I will only gain satisfaction after winning the Salim-Ali award this year A demon, who is highly clever, has the strength to face 50 people at a time, and who kills people as if he is killing ants. With the help of several powerful people in the society-- -- and many intelligent accomplices, they are able to trace our movements-- -- well in advance Then lets arrest him immediately No, our plan is to catch him red-handed If we arrest him now, the accomplices will escape Arrest them, beat them up and force to confess the crime-- --and then court acquits them due to no evidence, this is what you follow here That's not how we work, we follow a very unique procedure Once we apprehend, they can't escape Our each move will be well calculated Now we need all the props and equipments Car, bullets, wireless to communicate with all police stations in the city.. .. and immediately, 10000 rupees 10000 rupees? - Why are you worried? There may be a car chase, or we may need to stay and eat at the hotels where-- -- the criminals are hiding. How can we do all this without money? Case investigation is a very expensive assignment We can't ask for money time and again, we don't need to do that By the way, let the car be a Benz, correct, CID Mr. Ramdas? That's good, CID Mr. Vijay The CM himself travels in an Ambassador Let it be, but we need a Benz Sir, we can only arrange for a jeep. For God's sake, please co-operate What's the status of the blood group examination of the killer? We received the report, its AB+ve - AB+ve? Oh, that AB+ve. - Yes, then it should be easy to identify the killer Isn't there a Gold detector machine? We need that as well Police should be always ready If guns or any other weapons are required, supply it immediately We are prepared for an endless encounter and are proceeding towards it Also, please arrange for some Police dogs Sir, you here? I am here to see the DYSP I am building a hospital for poor people I'm here to invite him for the inauguration Also, I have some work related to the orphanage as well Since I am childless, such social work is the only satisfaction I have By the way, what's the status of your investigation? We have progressed very well We have understood that people disguised as honest men are the actual culprits We won't let anyone getaway Damu? The other theatre has a James Bond movie - Let's watch that tomorrow Yes, we have a lot to learn from that, this James Bond.... Forget James bond, I'm very hungry, lets eat something He ran away - Why did you hold me from behind? When I tried to catch him, I caught you and.. Shucks, he ran away - Did you see his face? Nothing to see, he works for that fat guy Good thing is, we have one shoe, we can catch him easily How? - Just catch the guy walking with one shoe I am very worried Why? - If he gets any suspicion, he will slaughter me That's why you are in a disguise I always get beaten when in disguise Then what's the issue, you have the experience Listen, in case you die, no need to worry, I will solve this case Das, don't jinx it - It won't Listen, two drops of blood, just two drops If it is AB+ve, then this investigation is a complete success Ok, once I go there as a servant, then? You dimwit Vijay, how many times I need to explain this? See, this is the syringe, ok? You need to insert this into his hand or leg and then pull this behind, that will collect the blood Then you said something about this bottle - I'll poke you in the face This is chloroform, take some in this cotton and apply it on his nose then he will loose consiousness, after that you need to collect the blood Oh, thats all. So if I ask him if I can apply chloroform, he will agree, correct? You fool, you need to apply it when he is sleeping Oh ok, so first I go there as a servant, and then ..... Ok then, as decided, wish you success So, this syringe... Syringe your Grandmom.. Who are you? - I am ... I am What do you want? Since I am a hard-working servant, Sir should give me a job There is no job here I know all Northern, Southern and Central Kerala cuisines There is no requirement I don't want salary, Sir - Get lost I don't want food also, Sir - Get out What happened? - He said Get Out Don't give up like that, try once again I told him I don't want salary and food, if I go again he will hit me None of this is going to work Like the CI suggested, arrest him first, then collect blood as much as you want But to arrest him we don't have any evidence Then you go there with a beard Bro, I don't have the look of a servant even if I wear a beard If you can get into any one of the houses in this neighborhood, that's enough What's the use of that? We can watch him, we can track his movements.. .. and also we can come in the night to collect blood Lets try that house - Should we? Yes. Listen, don't we want medals, fame, reach new heights? Don't you want to fulfill the dreams we had when we were jobless? - Yes Big house.. - Car, AC, fridge, .... Exactly. Go ahead, try that house I can do any job - Why should I care? I can clean utensils, wipe floors, chop woods, draw water from well - So? Everyone told me the madam who lives here is very kind to poor starving people They must have spoken about someone else, you came to the wrong house Madam, I am a modest man You look like a thief Oh the beard.. I mean hair.. Can you please leave, we don't need any servant for now Who's there? I asked you to leave Greetings Madam Who is this guy? I have come as a servant, Madam As a servant? So you are not a servant for real? Then come to the backyard. Hey, not through here, come via the outer area I won't allow strangers in this house. - Who are you to say that? You stop staring and come to the backyard. - Thanks Madam Let my husband come, I want to know if I have any authority here He is not required to confirm that You have absolutely no authority in this house. You come to the backyard Who are you? Who are you, man? - passer-by, passer-by No electricity. I forgot about the change in power cut timings Thangappa, you need to fill the water tank Me? - Then who, me? You mean to say that I need to manually fill the water tank on the second floor? There's no time to talk, there isn't a drop of water available. Make it fast Darling, should I get you something to drink? Hey, do you want to get paid for sitting around? Thangappa, chop the wood I'm loosing breath, let me rest for a minute Go to Ooty if you want to take rest The more you work, that much you can eat, that's the principle here I don't care if your bones break, I will not let you sit idle Chop the wood. I said chop the wood After that, wash all these clothes and dry them before sunset Should I do that as well? Then who else will do it, your lover? God, did you make me a CID to wash others clothes? Das, you jerk What are you murmuring? - Nothing Hey, you didn't fill the tank - He has other jobs to do Then what should I do if there is no water to cook? - Then fill it yourself. You chop the wood Nobody else can give orders to the servant I hired Whoever hired him, my husband is the one who will pay him He was my son first before he became your husband Thangappa, I am warning you Hey, you keep chopping I don't give a damn. Nobody will get lunch You should follow only my orders Don't be late to fill the tank Keep chopping Who are you? - Sir, you here? Who are you man? - I am ... He is our new servant, Thangappan He looks so evil. I got spooked when he opened the door Even though he looks filthy, he's good at work Thangappan, wipe the floor We can't trust anyone these days, what if he steals? Then it will be his end. Will you dare to steal? Hi, where are you coming from? - I went to get him from day care It was good that I came to your house the other day We found the criminal who we were searching for all these days But you didn't have the coffee I got for you Thats alright. Investigation is more important than coffee If you are not busy, please do come today. Mom was asking for you I am busy, but still I will come. I may not find time later Please sit. Don't run away again. I'll be right back CID, where have you been? Yes, I was wandering around due to work Yes, you will have to wander. Aren't you Kedhu? No, Ramdas Not that, isn't it Kedur Dasha (bad luck) currently in your horoscope That I am not aware That's bad. Then how will you prepare ahead? If there is bad luck, we need to nullify it Its a bad period for people with Cancer Zodiac sign Don't you get your horoscope checked regularly? - No I must have checked my son's horoscope at least 100 times No astrologer told me that at 32 years of age such a thing will happen But this can't be predicted, because it was not a natural death my son was murdered What are you saying? I wanted to ask you something for a long time What is it? You can do it, because you are a CID It was a lamp that glowed like the sun, suddenly the flame blew away Now this is a family without a patriarch You didn't tell me what to do Can you please find my son's murderer? I just wanted to ask him, why did he do such a cruel thing. What happened Mom? I'm just a stranger, still.. Please don't be upset with Mom Since Rajendran passed away, Mom is not normal That's not what I wanted to ask I know, you want to know if Rajendran was actually murdered? Yes, that's what she said - Its true He was a Police inspector. He was killed at the check post during duty He tried to stop a lorry transporting marijuana Didn't they catch the culprits? What's the point? We won't get Rajendran back So, I decided not to pursue the case If I had, Mom and my son would have starved But, being a murder case.. - Who is going to show interest? Governement, or lawyers? The government tried to prove that it was not a murder So that they can block the indemnities Since I was widowed, some people tried to get me a government job as compensation But since Rajendran's two year's service was short by two days, the government rejected it But you shouldn't have given up like that Then what, should I have begged for it in front of the minister's doorsteps? Now, at least I am satisfied that I didn't loose my dignity I am going to put efforts into helping my son prosper in life What about your parents? They have already disowned me, for marrying Rajendran, a Hindu Oh, I forgot to mention that I was born a Christian I never knew you were living with so many difficulties suppressed inside you I am trying to forget everything. I have to Mom believes Rajendran died due to my son's horoscope To be honest, fearing Mom I leave my son at the day care when I go to work Not because I have money for it If you don't mind, I'll try to find you a much better job Where? - In Government service itself I won't get one Don't say that. Our lives are like a struggle You need to fight to survive Let me give it a try Who's that? Oh Thangappan, it's you Didn't you sleep? Hey, what's wrong with your voice? It's flu, now it's fine Where are you going, darling? Why do you want to know? Why haven't you slept till now? I loose sleep when thinking about my family difficulties Then don't think about them. Go to sleep, I am going to get a beedi Will you be back soon? I may or may not come back When I saw you struggling to chop the woods, I felt miserable Go to sleep you nuisance Vijay, you're proving your in-capabilities time and again If you had a shred of common sense, would you have applied Chloroform to yourself? Shucks. God, it would have been a blessing if he died doing this If the sun had risen before I gained consciousness, that fat guy would have killed me Then I would have pardoned him from this case Das, I messed up once Why am I putting efforts to wipe the floor chop woods, draw well water? Its for the success of our investigation You somehow arrange for some more Chloroform No matter what, I will collect his blood today I am happy about one thing. - What's that? Since we know Prabhakaran Thampi already, even I can come to that house From there, we can track all the movements of that fat guy Henceforth, that house will be the base from where CIDs operate from Anandan Nambiar, you.. ? I, escaped from prison Drugs worth 15 lakhs seized at Kavaratti Customs officer Rajashekaran and his team seized a boat carrying drugs worth 15 lakh which was on course to Kavaratti islands. From the smuggling group, three were arrested, two jumped into the sea and fled Too bad. I'm fed up of these custom officers Due to them, smugglers are unable to survive these days Smuggling king Anandan Nambiar escapes from prison Anandan Nambiar, who fled from Central Jail yesterday, gained fame with smuggling and murders when operating from Madras. Police have confirmed that they have already laid traps in Tamil Nadu-- and other states to capture him Hey, Anandan Nambiar Oh please don't hit me, I haven't done any wrong Hey, look here. This is me, Prabhakaran Thampi Oh, you frightened me This fear is the reason you got imprisoned Listen, being a smuggler and murderer, you shouldn't be such a coward That's easy for you to say If you had endured one percent of what I suffered-- you would have died long back with a heart attack My life as the smuggling king of Madras was destroyed by two Malayalee CIDs I utilized every option I had to get them assassinated but none of them worked against those daredevils So Prabhakar, how is everything? Why do you look downbeat? How are the murders and smuggling going? All going fine But you didn't think of visiting me when I was in prison I was in Idukki at that time I came to know you were jailed when I was working on my marijuana plantations By the way, trouble is coming our way There's a news article on you in the paper with your latest photograph Where? - Look Oh My God I won't be able to go out anymore But Anandan, you have to go out The Police has never suspected me for anything Using the orphanage and hospital as a masquerade-- I am living here with the image of an honest man If the Police discovers I have any association with you-- It will ruin my future So then? Anandan, you must leave - Prabhakaran!! Quiet. I have not shown this newspaper to my wife Even my family doesn't know my secrets Without getting me into trouble, Anandan should leave immediately Are you the same old Prabhakaran? 7 years ago, at the Casino hotel in Vijaywada-- we hacked a Marwadi businessman to death-- and split his 4 lakhs rupees among ourselves. Can you so easily forget those good times? Don't waste time by speaking about the past Take some money if you want Money is not what I need now, what I need is a place to hide I will not be safe anywhere in India You please get me a fake passport I will go to Malaysia or Singapore and live as a labourer That's not very easy to obtain Anandan Then should I surrender to the Police? Yes, that would be better I won't leave this house if you don't get me a fake passport There's no way I can let you stay in this house You do one thing, go hide in my copra mill But you need to change your looks Meaning? - I mean you need to disguise yourself Wear a wig-- and a beard Also, you need to change this crackling voice of yours After you came here, my life is better, else I used to do all this work Did you have the sweet rice? I am not some ordinary or mediocre fellow like you think Oh my, darling I didn't say anything as such to annoy you I like short-tempered people They have love in their heart Darling, have you ever loved anyone? Look lady, I know where you are going with this Don't even keep such expectations I earn more than 1000 rupees a month 1000 rupees? Don't lie to me darling, Madam told me you earn only 40 rupees a month Liar What's going on between you two? Will you spoil my good name? Thangappan, you have to go to our copra mill with that cycle You have to drop someone. - Ok Who's that? I asked who's that? I am asking you How did you get in? I... am... Prabhakaran's friend Mom, this is my friend Ibrahimkutty You saw him last night Oh, was this the guy who went with you upstairs? - Yes But, he didn't have a beard then Yes he did Yes I did I can't remember clearly - Yes Mom, he did Is it? Isn't he wearing your clothes? - Oh that's because .... Son, why are you friends with such useless people? Nambia... Ibrahimkutty, the cycle is ready Thangappan, where are you off to? He will drop him at the bus stand and come back You had said copra mill - Oh yes, copra mill What for? - I'll explain that later, please leave soon Thangappan, come back soon, you need to collect cow dung from the shed Is it too far? - No, its close by Are you going for labour work at the copra mill? - No.. I mean yes Oh brother, its bad times for you - Why? These are merciless people They will make you work until your spine breaks You just focus on the cycle. - I was just warning you I just noticed, both our voices sound the same Where is your hometown? - Kayamkulam Oh ok, I have visited there long back Is it? - Yes Where is your hometown, brother? - Kuttanad, why? My father had a tea shop there long ago Stop blabbering and just cycle You can get down - Is this the place? Yes I have seen this fellow before - I have met this guy before Maybe not - Maybe not Oh, hello Sir - I was just visiting Please come - Yes Sir, where were you? Where were you Sir? When you entered this door, I went through the other door Then I came through the other door and came upstairs Lets sit downstairs Anyways I came up, let me see the house Well there's nothing specific to see here Sir I mean, lets take a look at the construction Devu, two cups of tea. Quick. Sir, till date no one has come or slept in this room Just a spare room, right? - What? Just a spare room? - Yes yes How is this neighborhood? All good people live here sir I mean, everyone in this neighborhood are humble and reputed, like me Honestly speaking, since I'm childless, such neighbors are my only satisfaction Last time we met, you said orphanage and hospital is your only satisfaction That's a different satisfaction Sir, I like you a lot Kind of a special affection which you feel for your father My mind is always restless to meet you Sir Can I visit this house regularly? Why not, since I'm childless.. - .. this would be another satisfaction? Correct It's so beautiful to look out this window, I liked this room a lot This is my own blanket, I use it regularly Let it be, I didn't ask about that I was just informing Sir, Tea Rascal, you scared me Sir.. - Get out My Mom... - What? She will hire such fools for work This rascal is not just a fool Sir, he is a gigantic fool Is this how you bring tea to a reputed person's room? Oh my God Hey Vijay, leave him, leave him. What's this? Kill me, just kill me. There is no use of this body now I am getting punished to work with such useless CIDs Damu, don't talk nonsense - I will only talk nonsense hereafter Since he was wearing a mask, I thought he is the murderer Rubbish, I wore the mask so that the killers will think I am there member-- --and not hurt me You are so foolish, Damu You guys are foolish You have been wandering for so many days, what crap have you found? Shut up Damu Fed up, I am fed up of this life Where is your wig and beard? You are a cheat, a jerk If I am a gigantic fool, then you are a Hippopotamus, a wild one When that guy slapped me, how could you not do anything? When you are in disguise how can I... - I don't want this useless disguise All the household work has broken my spine I am going back to Madras I will handle some local case there and live an average CID's life Go, go back to Madras Anandan Nambiar is waiting there to kill you Anandan Nambiar? Yes bro, he escaped from prison Oh God, there is no place where we can go to. - Exactly Vijay, if we solve this case-- we can request the minister to add us to Kerala police If we go to Madras, Anandan Nambiar won't let us live Who, the HM? At the guesthouse? Sure, we will be there soon State Police, Tamil Nadu CID, I don't want to hear all this Tell me if there's progress on the case? - Yes, It has progressed well But a humble request, like the State Police suggests-- don't force us to arrest the suspect immediately Who are you suspecting? - He is in our Line of Sight Sir Who? Me? No, I mean he is been cornered in our trap For your assurance, I will show you some evidence Constable? Sorry, CID Mr. Vijayan, open the box This is a very enormous evidence, Sir Sorry, Fingerprints Bata? Bata owners are the murderers? No Sir I have one more evidence, A mask Once we get one final evidence, we can then arrest all the suspects of this case Which evidence? The suspects blood sample, that's all that is remaining We already have the syringe and chloroform to collect the blood sample What the hell is all this? I cant understand anything I've heard rumors of you catching some big criminals in Madras-- but I don't think its true Assembly meeting is close by I have to answer to the questions there, not you If you don't solve this case immediately, all the expenses for this case-- will be recovered from you Sir, don't you dare speak like that. If you will, then I have something to say Last year June, do your remember an Inspector named Rajendran-- who was murdered at the Udarinnur check post? You falsely concluded it as a natural death when actually it was a murder You denied the indemnities that his family deserved You denied job to his widow because he was just two days-- -- short of his two years of service As they were poor, they couldn't file a case First give them justice, then we can think about the investigation Oh, I didn't recognize you - One moment please I'll be right back You look like a model from a TV commercial Is it the attire? - Yes This is an international attire followed by the CIDs Haven't you noticed it in English movies? I don't recollect - Pay attention henceforth By the way, I vented my anger at the minister Which minister? - Home minister I told him there will be trouble if he does not sort out Shobha's issues He must have said 'Let me study the case', I have heard this several times Don't know when they will learn You be calm, Shobha. Everything will be fine. Who is that suspicious bald, bearded guy at the counter? Where? - On my left Oh, he is just a worker here, he's decent Not necessarily, the way we CIDs disguise ourselves-- criminals also disguise themselves Be careful Who did you go to meet at the textile shop? Don't think I don't know what's going on I will inform this to the department I'll inform that instead of investigation, you are flirting with girls here You were sent here with a serious responsibility A person with jaundice will see everything in yellow Even you were sent here with a serious responsibility I gave you Chloroform and a syringe You can't even collect a blood sample of a person, and you call yourself a CID? If Chloroform got over, then... Leave it, I don't need your assistance I know how to get his blood sample Let's collaborate... - No, no collaboration Within 24 hours, I will collect his blood sample and show you Did you order for anything? - No, I thought we'll order together 20 rotis Do we need that many? - Sir, you don't worry, I'll adjust What else sir? - Boneless chilly chicken, four plates Would four plates be enough Sir? - Should be enough for now Then, fried rice Or else, get what I ordered first, rest I will order later Sir, order? - Yes, Omelette Sorry Sir, something bit me We are not here to see your antics Get the food again Something bit me again, I swear Sir Oh, its you I know this guy, I suspected him long back He's trying to kill me by injecting some poison Someone has sent him to kill me and steal my research Kunjikrishnan? Oh, was it you Prabhakaran?- I thought some CID has come No wonder why Madras Police caught you. Why you still wearing the wig and beard? - Better to be safe than sorry Did you ask for me? Where were you? Have you lost your old enthusiasm? I asked you to kill those CIDs, you didn't get that done Moreover, I am fed up of Deve Gowda You call up at Idukki and ask them to send the lorry with marijuana As usual, jump the check-post, kill the policeman or do whatever needed But the marijuana should reach Mangalore You again, I going to kill you today Who sent you to kill me? I will kill him and you. Stop there Oh no, what a time to breakdown Yes, what's the problem? This marijuana lorry... - Marijuana lorry? This marijuana lorry Oh yes, this marijuana lorry, yes tell me I mean, we got an information that this jumped the check-post Let them jump the check-post, let them come with a gun-- I will still catch any marijuana lorry You used to doubt and despise us, right? What do you think now? Inspector, along with solving the murder case,we're going to purify the entire city Bring the lorry to the Station CID from Tamil Nadu This is the very first time. How many times we have jumped the check-post How many Police officers we have killed But nobody seized our marijuana lorries till date It was a bearded fat guy who attacked our people I don't know who that could be They all might be CIDs Anandan, don't take this the wrong way But the day you stepped into my house, that day my troubles began Prabhakaran, don't mock the dead I lost everything and came to you as a beggar Please arrange a fake passport for me quickly Lakhs have gone down the drain, and you care about your passport Kunjikrishnan, those guys who were in the lorry, ask them to go underground Ok sure I'm going to visit Guruvayoor temple, that is the only satisfaction My passport? Shobha told me she saw your name in the paper It seems, you caught some big criminals Oh, you read it? I thought you didn't, so I got the paper along My photo was published in the Indian Express Headline was - "CID Ramdas and company along with the seized marijuana lorry" How are you able to find such things, son? Uh, we have been trained for that And we are also allowed to shoot suspects if needed Oh, is it? Hey son, I got you a gift Oh this wasn't necessary Kids of this age should always have a cycle Just because we accepted a new umbrella last time, this is unnecessary You will just gift him a cycle and go Tomorrow if this gets damaged, we won't be able to buy him a new one Lets not pamper him too much. - That's alright I just bought it for the satisfaction of solving this case To be honest, there's nobody else here to share such moments with Meaning? Well, everybody has a story We were a well-to-do family, but lost everything one day and-- my mother had to live as a maid at a relative's place At the time of my mother's death, I was in Madras, with no address and no food Not much, but still I have learnt and suffered enough in life Any relative back in your hometown? If I become rich, I may have a lot of relatives For now, there's no one His leg... Are you in a hurry? - No Nambiar Sir Sir, please come We didn't get the fake passport Will you go to Dubai? - That also needs passport, right? Not needed, there is an alternative There's a cargo ship that can take you to Dubai. - A ship? Yes. - In this era? No doubts, he has saved thousands of people in this manner Who's that? This is the guy I was talking about Even at this age, you still have dreams to go to the Gulf, you wicked man My son's marriage is in Sharjah next week, with an Engish woman English woman - Yes yes Didn't get a passport in such short notice, I'm not going for a job So its your luck that I came now This cargo ship is going to California Where? - To California So just for you, we will take a diversion via Dubai Do you know how to swim? - Why? To swim We cannot take the ship too near to the coast, so-- you will need to swim a bit I can swim, but what if I get caught by the Dubai Police But who said you will arrive right in front of the Police He's an aged man, so he's not very brave So I'm there to help You just do one thing, get an Arab outfit along with you As soon as you reach the coast, where the Arab outfit Also, I will teach you some basic Arabic words now Then there's nothing to worry. Dubai Police won't nab an Arab But still, how to learn Arabic so soon? Its not so difficult, I will teach you now itself Say, Aslamu Alaikum Asl...? Aslamu - Aslamu Alaikum - Alaikum Aslamu Alaikum - Aslamu Alaikum Va Alaikum Musalam Vvv.... Va - Va Alaikum Musalam - Alaikum Musalam Done, thats all So, come here on Friday night with the Arab outfit and money I didn't understand, what so particular about Friday? I have heard the voice of this bullfinch several times From far away, like a dream, I was able to interpret their colorful wings I just realized that all these happened on Fridays So on other days, they might be wandering in other unknown areas Yes, so this Friday night, we will go to the island-- with all our equipment and find that bullfinch The ship is waiting in the outer sea, have you got the money? Yes, 20000 rupees Then give it to me Here Your look has changed completely, why have you worn the Arab outfit now itself? That uhh... I just wore for it for a practice. Is it enough? Enough? Don't think I am flattering you, clear-cut Arab looks Don't get offended, its not that I don't trust you But the last time a person claimed he has given me the whole amount-- but when I checked on the ship it was 2000 rupees short Just to avoid a fuss in the middle of the sea, I will count this now Please do Ok, the boat is here. We can reach the island in half an hour. Bullfinch's thermogenesis period will start soon I won't let him escape like the previous day from the marijuana lorry I also noticed that guy accompanying him He might be some international smuggler. Its like two birds with one bullet If we catch them with evidence, then is blood sample required? How many bottles of blood do you require, we can draw as much as we want when he is in custody. - Oh yes Oh, they are going to the sea Vijay, a boat chase might be required. - But where do we have a boat? Boat... Hasn't one been arranged? - By who, me? See, there's one boat Hello, please wait Unnikrishnan, CIDs, escape, escape Gafoorka? Catch him - Oh God, please let go You promised to drop us in Dubai and cheated us You dropped us in Madras Marina beach saying its the Dubai coast Dear sons, I also thought it was Dubai, I didn't do it on purpose You... - Wait Das, don't kill him Anyhow, Madras did not ruin us. In a way, Gafoorka was our lucky charm. - Yes Today we are two well reputed CIDs CIDs can kill anybody whenever they want So if you want to live, return us the money we paid you I want to live, but I don't have the money What's this? - Its just some tobacco Show me Tobacco, huh? - Yes Ok Dear sons, please return the money, I have a family... - Shut up Nambiar, you? I jumped into the sea Prabhakaran, don't get shocked when I say this-- No, I am sure you will get shocked The same CIDs who apprehended me are now here No wonder one of your marijuana lorries were seized Let alone marijuana lorries, they are going to ruin you altogether Did you see those CIDs? Yes, just before boarding the boat and I immediately jumped into the sea The same two CIDs from Madras, its not safe for us to be here anymore Then why the hell did you come here? Oh, you also jumped into the sea? - I had no other choice Kunjikrishnan, please get rid of this nuisance somehow only then I will be at peace Prabhakaran, I am not heartless like you Even if I get apprehended, you should escape I am definite that the CIDs have laid their traps around this house You should be very careful Let my issues be Kunjikrishnan, please hide this guy in a sack and get him out of this city? Lets hide him in a lorry bringing the copra load? - Thats good Prabhakaran, I will go, but again to the copra mill? I don't have the courage Don't you dare step into this house again At the Casino Hotel in Vijaywada... Several recommendations like this have been submitted before That's true But Shobha, the department values me a lot after I seized that marijuana lorry I told the minister that if he wants me to solve the murder case-- he needs to sort out your job first. Why not give it a try? Listen, just sign this Rest you leave it to me. Come. Boss, copra has been unloaded. The driver is ready to go. I troubled you a lot That's alright. Once you reach Mangalore, then you are safe Deve Gowda is an expert in fake passports You also lost a lot of money because of me At the Casino Hotel in Vijaywada... Oh, get ready to leave Is this lorry driver a Malayalee? - Yes, he is, nothing to worry about About me escaping from prison...? - We haven't told him anything I will send you a letter once I reach - Ok Hey, don't send any letters, that could be trouble. Come, lets leave soon Escape, escape - Why, what happened? CID, CID spy - Who is the CID spy? That driver Balan, he is not a driver, he is a CID spy I know him very well He is not here to unload the copra, he is here to spy on you Prabhakaran, please beleive me In Madras, he was in the disguise of a taxi driver With his help, those CIDs apprehended me If that's the case, then he won't leave from here alive Hey you, don't you want to see your family? Get down, get down here Why? Wait, wait, why are you hammering me? What wrong have I done? Just because you all are hefty, how dare you bully me? Nowadays, I am so regularly beaten You, where are your CIDs? - Which CID.... Open the trunk Move Isn't there place to sit inside the car? Come on, get in Aren't you guys coming along? So, how are you Bala? Did you recognize me? Swami, I didn't recognize any of you Swami? Nambiar Sir? - Shut up, you cheat Why the hell are do you have a red band on your head? Take it off, you dog You brute, because of you today I am wandering around like a zombie Long ago, when I met with a car accident, you took me to the hospital and saved me But what you asked in return cost me dearly I was peacefully running my smuggling business, and you destroyed me What are you talking about, Nambiar Sir? For what crime are you beating me up? You don't know anything huh? In the past, didn't you bring those CIDs to my office in Madras? CIDs? You requested me to hire them, so that you could help them find my secrets Tell me the truth. Aren't you a CID spy? CID spy? Nambiar Sir, when Marwadis seized my taxi because I couldnt pay the installments-- with a lot of difficulty I found this job with the inter-state lorry transport This is the seventh time I have come to Thampi Sir's mill for unloading Shut up Diamonds are best to cut diamonds Our men have already kidnapped your wife and kids in Madras Do you want to see them alive? - My wife and kids.... You have 24 hours, you need to kill those two CIDs by yourself CIDs or your family, you decide Which CIDs are you talking about Sir? Don't you know CIDs Dasan and Vijayan? Those scoundrels, they're here too? No wonder I am getting beatings regularly Shut up you rascal Sir, I swear I don't know any of this If you don't, then listen, we were unable to kill them If its you, they will never doubt it There's no time to think, what do you say? My family? - Yes, keep that in mind and take this gun Just two bullets My dear son Munuchami, daughter Kanaki, such a fate has come to your father Who's that? Leave him Damu, Leave him, he is a friend not an enemy Damu, this is our dearest and beloved Balettan In Madras, he is the one who saved us from starvation and got us a job Sir, if you hadn't come, I may have killed him Balettan, we are always vigilant in this house After two attacks, we trained him for such things After becoming CIDs, we did not get a chance to meet you Before completing our training, we were sent here for a case investigation Damu, get tea - Ok You are the stepping stone for all our success Balettan That Balettan's stepping stone has shaken Who shook it? How they shook it? We won't let it shake We will tighten it for you Tomorrow you cannot see the person you see today God is the one who gives burdens in short notice Meaning? - It seems he has gone bonkers Hey, keep quiet It seems Balettan's mental health is not very well That's what I said in other words "He has gone bonkers" Dasan, I have always disliked this fellow Balettan, first take bath, lets talk after that Give this to me - No, I'll hold it, Leave it, I'll hold it Why do you have a bomb or gun in it? Balettan you go take a bath It would be better to take bath in emblica water. - Hey, I will slap.... If this operation is a success, I will get you a bungalow in Shimla or Darjeeling Prabhakaran, I don't need a bungalow from you Just a provision to perform smuggling with comfort and peace If CIDs are erased from the face of this earth, then I don't fear to live in India Is it true that your men have kidnapped Balan's family? Is it true? I just got a call asking if they should be killed Then we are safe Balan will kill those CIDs for sure What? What is it? Prabhakaran, CIDs have surrounded this house A dangerous CID is currently watching us. Where? - Look there Oh this guy He is a simple fellow who recently shifted to that house All CIDs look like simple people Didn't your driver say that your marijuana lorry was seized by a fat bearded guy? Yes. - Isn't he fat and bearded? Nambiar, stop scaring me - You can't avoid it, Prabhakaran I can identify a CID just by looking at them That fat guy is a partner of those Tamil Nadu CIDs for sure God, I was stupid to come here after fleeing from prison I was stupid to give you asylum Why don't you get lost somewhere? - Now, we will need to get lost together Yes Sir, its true Its a truth that will shock the world of research I found the bird on a banyan tree and took a photo In the photo, I was able to capture its twin beaks Yesterday when I tried to shoot, I realized the gun was empty I won't falter again, definitely I will shoot All the evidences are in my briefcase No matter what, I will not loose the briefcase At any moment, there can be an assault, so we need to leave this place Sir, come in the morning with a car I want to reveal the evidences in this briefcase to the world very soon Hey.. Hey, Nambiar.. Hey, its me, its me I thought its a CID CIDs, they are prepared, they are planning to shoot us That Ashok Verma who we killed had a briefcase with all evidences Evidences regarding our marijuana plantations in Idukki and Perumathura, Diagrams regarding how to find our smuggled gold, He has a similar briefcase like that He is going to reveal the evidences in that briefcase to the world We have to snatch it, we have to, we have to Balettan, that's a gun, it will fire - Let it fire Balettan, I am Dasan, Ramdas, your old neighbor Won't you let me sleep? - Don't move, I will kill both of you Dasan, I had told you he is gone bonkers and you didn't believe me Hey.. - Balettan? I have to kill you soon or else they will murder my family What are you talking about? I noticed a change in you since you came, I am not able to understand I can't. Both of you shoot and kill yourselves They kidnapped my family If you guys don't die, Anandan Nambiar will murder them Yes, Anandan Nambiar itself That same old Anandan Nambiar who went to jail because of you two Nambiar's men beat me up when I came to unload copra Then he gave me this gun and sent me here, to kill you both Nambiar.. Is he here? - Yes he is It seems he escaped prison to mainly kill you both Who are Nambiar's helpers here? I don't know that, a fat guy beat me up and gave me this gun Fat guy? He's slightly bald? - Yes, that's him Then there's nothing left, we have got all the evidences. - What evidences? We can prove in court it is that fat guy who gave Balettan this gun to kill us We can arrest him and make him confess to all his crimes Vijay, call the CI, we need vehicles, bullets, bombs, be ready for an encounter Its not yet morning... - Just call him This sunrise, will be his last sunrise He will be put into a prison with no sunlight We are loosing time, call the CI Balettan, you don't worry, nothing will happen to your family Hey.. He's trying to escape because somehow he got to know we are coming Then lets call the Police Control room and ask them to block all roads. - No We'll catch him first then we will call the Police I got the briefcase - Good job Success, now there's nothing to worry Who's that? Prabhakar, open it later This is Thampi Sir's copra mill - Yes There is Thampi Sir Sir, what's all this? Nambiar? Vijay, that means all of these guys are together Wait, wait, one minute, I have something to give him Hey Balan, I.... No, kill me, but I won't give this. - We need you not the briefcase We are going to end your smuggling and murders Why are you beating this fat guy? - Wasn't he the one with Nambiar? That guy is not this one, he is another fat guy Then who are you? I'm a bird watcher Dasan, he took it Vijay, call the Police Dasan, you go, go What a face, I can't resist myself You said my family is in your custody? Now you are in my custody Shobha, that's your appointment order for government service Its not just my efforts, Shobha always deserved it Here our work is done, so we are going back Son, you are leaving? - Yes After meeting you, we felt there is someone here for us Don't change that feeling, you can believe that I will be there for any help Now I can keep my head held high in the Assembly We will complete our five years term That's not enough People who ask you to quit politics after 60 years of age are our enemies Even if you are unable to walk, you should continue to govern us That will be my efforts henceforth I wish you a safe journey We are sorry that we troubled you Since it was for something good, it's fine We will invite you for Isaac's Bullfinch book launch, please don't miss it Wherever that launch is, we will be there Dharma Samsthapanarthaya Sambhavami Yuge Yuge (verses from Bhagwad Gita)